In the last two lectures you have seen two ways of deleting model relations.
First was subscribing to event and second was handling it on the database level by adding a cascade
on delete.
So every relation was then removed.
Now in light of all we can also use something called soft deletes and what that does is instead of removing
the records from the database physically it will actually set a field on that model call deleted art
which would be a date when the model was deleted and then a lot of people will understand that you will
you have that field and that you are using soft delete on certain models and then when you will query
for this model a want return every possible entry from the database it will only read return models
that were deleted.
So it's pretty simple what you have to do is you have to add a trait to the blog post called self deletes
and you can notice that in this code I got that how to magically imported but that's the correct namespace
you should type or you can check the code for this lecture in the github link is always provided.
Now this isn't enough.
It's almost enough of what we have to do.
So basically this self delete trait will handle everything for us.
You do not really have to worry how to use self deleting well how to actually implemented because in
the next lecture I will show you how we can query models with that are were deleted and also fetch models
that were only deleted etc. But first we of course need a migration so let's run Peach Pit artisan make
migration and we can call it art self delete to blog posts tabled.
Now let's open up this migration and in this case it's again pretty simple.
We do not have to add the column manually or worry about the structure.
We can just add
we can just add a call to self deletes method which will insert old and necessary column.
Actually only one column and in the drop we can do table
drop self deletes and that's it.
That's all you have to do now go to the terminal and run peach bee artisan migrate and that's it.
We have solved deleting implemented inside Blocked posts so let's go to the table now and what you can
see on the right is a new column called deleted at which is a timestamp so it works the same as create
it out and update it out.
Now let's go back to our blog post model you can see that we have commented out the event that will
delete comments but we have this database constraint that when blog posts would be removed all the comments
would be removed but not in this case.
Now since we aren't actually deleting the blog post we are just setting our delete a date on it.
Let's see what happens.
So let's click delete on couple of blog posts and now inside the blog posts table you can see that on
those couple of blog posts we now have deleted art set as a date and also you can see that those blog
posts doesn't exist anymore.
So if you haven't noticed.
Let's see this strange blog post title.
Let's press delete and now you can see that we are fetching all the models inside our controller which
is post controller and in our index when we use whip count or if we use blog post hole it would ignore
everything that was deleted but we'll get to that in the next lecture when I will show you how we can
query the models that use self deletes and also how we can fetch those models that were deleted and
how we can restore the models that were deleted which would mean they would be available again and visible
to a lot of other queries.